README.md, before:

# Algo: Implementation comparer

[![Build Status][1]][2]
[![Coverage Status][3]][4]

This project provides an easy way to compare the performances of several implementations of a
method.

## What will I get from it?

When using the comparison algorithm and logger, you will obtain this kind of output:

```
o.k.c.c.ImplComparer - Beginning performance comparison for method <hello>, (3 check(s), 10000 iteration(s) per check
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - +--------+--------------------+--------+
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - | Method | Avg time (ms)      | Result |
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - +--------+--------------------+--------+
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - | hello  | 3.6887             |    REF |
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - | hello1 | 2.7880666666666665 | == REF |
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - | hello2 | 1.9368             | == REF |
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - +--------+--------------------+--------+
```

The columns are the following:

1. **Method**: the name of the method being evaluated;
2. **Avg time (ms)**: the average execution time during the verification, in milliseconds;
3. **Result**: a comparison of results:
  * ``REF``: for the reference (first) result, either if results both point to the same sector or both are ``void`` or ``null``;
  * ``== REF``: for a result equal to the reference result (using the ``.equals(Object)`` method);
  * ``!= REF``: for a result not equal to the reference result (using the ``.equals(Object)`` method).
  
## How to use?

### Create a test project

This is a suggestion of course, but it seems ill-advised to add the comparer as a dependency to
your project: it is only a programming tool.

You should add the project containing the class you wish to test as a dependency to your project.

### Adding the comparer to your dependencies

This project is _not_ available on any Maven repository. You must therefore:

1. clone this project in your own workspace;
2. install it to your local repository using the ``mvn install`` command;
3. add it as a dependency to your project:

  ```xml
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.keyboardplaying</groupId>
    <artifactId>java-implementation-comparer</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
  </dependency>
  ```

### Comparing and logging

#### Preparing variants

For instance, if I want to compare several implementations of the method
``public static String hello(String name)``, you will have to write methods with the
_exact same_ signature (return type, parameters) but adding a number at the end of the name of the
method, e.g. ``public static String hello1(String name)``.

The algorithm will search all methods with the same signature and increment the suffix until no more
variant is found.

#### Perform the comparison

I personally tend to create a ``TestClass`` and make a ``main`` which execute the comparison.
Below is an example:

```java
    public static void main(String[] args) throws NoSuchMethodException, IllegalAccessException,
            IllegalArgumentException {
        /* Prepare the comparer */
        ImplComparer cmp = new ImplComparer();
        /* Uncomment to override default settings */
        // cmp.setChecks(3);
        // cmp.setIterations(10000);

        List<ImplCheckResult> results = cmp.compareStatic(ToBeTested.class, "hello",
                new Class<?>[] { String.class }, new Object[] { "Chop" });
        /* Non-static method variant */
        // List<ImplCheckResult> results = cmp.compare(new ToBeTested(), "hello",
        // new Class<?>[] { String.class }, new Object[] { "Chop" });

        /* Print the result */
        ImplComparisonLogger logger = new ImplComparisonLogger();
        logger.log(results);
    }
```

[1]: http://img.shields.io/travis/cyChop/java-implementation-comparer/master.svg
[2]: https://travis-ci.org/cyChop/java-implementation-comparer
[3]: http://img.shields.io/coveralls/cyChop/java-implementation-comparer/master.svg
[4]: https://coveralls.io/r/cyChop/java-implementation-comparer?branch=master

Commit message:

Added a "History" section to README

README.md, after:

# Algo: Implementation comparer

[![Build Status][1]][2]
[![Coverage Status][3]][4]

This project provides an easy way to compare the performances of several implementations of a
method.

## History

Once you understand how the JVM works, you usually can tell which way of programming will be the
most efficient. Sometimes, you just want to tinker, though, and find out by the experience.

In those cases, though not really hard, it is quite a pain to have to implement the comparison
solution, especially when the method is tightly related to its object, so I wrote some code I could
easily reuse to compare several implementations of a method.

And now I am sharing it.

## What you will get from it

When using the comparison algorithm and logger, you will obtain this kind of output:

```
o.k.c.c.ImplComparer - Beginning performance comparison for method <hello>, (3 check(s), 10000 iteration(s) per check
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - +--------+--------------------+--------+
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - | Method | Avg time (ms)      | Result |
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - +--------+--------------------+--------+
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - | hello  | 3.6887             |    REF |
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - | hello1 | 2.7880666666666665 | == REF |
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - | hello2 | 1.9368             | == REF |
o.k.c.c.ImplComparisonLogger - +--------+--------------------+--------+
```

The columns are the following:

1. **Method**: the name of the method being evaluated;
2. **Avg time (ms)**: the average execution time during the verification, in milliseconds;
3. **Result**: a comparison of results:
  * ``REF``: for the reference (first) result, either if results both point to the same sector or both are ``void`` or ``null``;
  * ``== REF``: for a result equal to the reference result (using the ``.equals(Object)`` method);
  * ``!= REF``: for a result not equal to the reference result (using the ``.equals(Object)`` method).

## How to use?

### Create a test project

This is a suggestion of course, but it seems ill-advised to add the comparer as a dependency to
your project: it is only a programming tool.

You should add the project containing the class you wish to test as a dependency to your project.

### Adding the comparer to your dependencies

This project is _not_ available on any Maven repository. You must therefore:

1. clone this project in your own workspace;
2. install it to your local repository using the ``mvn install`` command;
3. add it as a dependency to your project:

  ```xml
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.keyboardplaying</groupId>
    <artifactId>java-implementation-comparer</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
  </dependency>
  ```

### Comparing and logging

#### Preparing variants

For instance, if I want to compare several implementations of the method
``public static String hello(String name)``, you will have to write methods with the
_exact same_ signature (return type, parameters) but adding a number at the end of the name of the
method, e.g. ``public static String hello1(String name)``.

The algorithm will search all methods with the same signature and increment the suffix until no more
variant is found.

#### Perform the comparison

I personally tend to create a ``TestClass`` and make a ``main`` which execute the comparison.
Below is an example:

```java
    public static void main(String[] args) throws NoSuchMethodException, IllegalAccessException,
            IllegalArgumentException {
        /* Prepare the comparer */
        ImplComparer cmp = new ImplComparer();
        /* Uncomment to override default settings */
        // cmp.setChecks(3);
        // cmp.setIterations(10000);

        List<ImplCheckResult> results = cmp.compareStatic(ToBeTested.class, "hello",
                new Class<?>[] { String.class }, new Object[] { "Chop" });
        /* Non-static method variant */
        // List<ImplCheckResult> results = cmp.compare(new ToBeTested(), "hello",
        // new Class<?>[] { String.class }, new Object[] { "Chop" });

        /* Print the result */
        ImplComparisonLogger logger = new ImplComparisonLogger();
        logger.log(results);
    }
```

[1]: http://img.shields.io/travis/cyChop/java-implementation-comparer/master.svg
[2]: https://travis-ci.org/cyChop/java-implementation-comparer
[3]: http://img.shields.io/coveralls/cyChop/java-implementation-comparer/master.svg
[4]: https://coveralls.io/r/cyChop/java-implementation-comparer?branch=master
